Update account documentation for Stable Cadence (#239)
onflow/docs: docs/cadence/language/accounts.mdx

sidebar_position: 19
---

The type `Account` provides access to accounts.
Accounts are only accessed through [references](./references.mdx),
which might be [authorized](./references.mdx#authorized-references).

> Account objects provide information about and allow the management of
> for example the account's [storage](#account-storage), [keys](#account-keys),
> and [capabilities](./capability-based-access-control.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Account objects provide information about and allow the management of
different aspects of the account such as the account's [storage](#account-storage), [keys](#account-keys),
, [capabilities](./capability-based-access-control.md), and etc.
```

entitlement GetStorageCapabilityController
entitlement IssueStorageCapabilityController

entitlement GetAccountCapabilityController
entitlement IssueAccountCapabilityController

/* Entitlement mappings */

entitlement mapping AccountMapping {
    include Identity

    Storage -> SaveValue
    Storage -> LoadValue
    Storage -> CopyValue
    Storage -> BorrowValue

    Contracts -> AddContract
    Contracts -> UpdateContract
    Contracts -> RemoveContract

    Keys -> AddKey
    Keys -> RevokeKey

    Inbox -> PublishInboxCapability
    Inbox -> UnpublishInboxCapability
    Inbox -> ClaimInboxCapability

    Capabilities -> StorageCapabilities
    Capabilities -> AccountCapabilities
}

entitlement mapping CapabilitiesMapping {
    include Identity

    StorageCapabilities -> GetStorageCapabilityController
    StorageCapabilities -> IssueStorageCapabilityController

    AccountCapabilities -> GetAccountCapabilityController
    AccountCapabilities -> IssueAccountCapabilityController
}
```

### Account access

#### Performing read operations

Access to an `&Account` means having "read access" to it.
For example, the `address` and `balance` fields have the `access(all)` modifier,

> so are always accessibly, which is safe because this information is public,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
so are always accessible, which is safe because this information is public,
```

and the fields are read-only.

> Any code can get a "read-only" reference to an account (`&Account`)
> for an account address by using the built-in `getAccount` function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any code can get a "read-only" reference to an account (`&Account`)
at a given address by using the built-in `getAccount` function:
```

for each signer of the transaction that signs as an authorizer.
The `prepare` phase of the transaction can specify exactly which entitlements
it needs to perform its work.

For example, a transaction that deploys a contract to an account can be written as follows:

```cadence
transaction {
    prepare(signer: auth(AddContract) &Account) {
        signer.contracts.add(name: "MyContract", code: [/* code */])
    }
}
```

Here, the transaction requests an authorized reference with the `AddContract` entitlement.
That means that the transaction is entitled to add a contract to the account,
but is not able to add another key to the account, for example.

Script can get any kind of access to any account, using the built-in `getAuthAccount` function:

```cadence
fun getAuthAccount<T: &Account>(_ address: Address): T
```

This function is only available in scripts.
Though scripts can perform write operations,
they discard their changes upon completion.
Attempting to use this function outside of a script,
for example in a transaction,
causes a type error.

## Creating an account

The `Account` constructor allows creating new accounts.

> The function requires a reference to a _payer_ account,

Reviewer: Maybe also mention the payer account reference needs (Storage | BorrowValue) entitlement

Author: Will do that in a follow-up to avoid conflicts
